How does CSS affect HTML?
Web browsers apply CSS rules to a document to affect how they are displayed. A CSS rule is formed from:
1. A set of properties, which have values set to update how the HTML content is displayed, for example I want my element's width to be 50% of its parent element, and its background to be red.
2. A selector, which selects the element(s) you want to apply the updated property values to. For example, I want to apply my CSS rule to all the paragraphs in my HTML document.


Difference between ID and class:
The difference between an ID and a class is that an ID can be used to identify one element, whereas a class can be used to identify more than one.


Why use id instead of class?
IDs are usually used when you need to reference that element in JavaScript, so if you were looking to fade out a div when a button is clicked the div and button would get IDs instead of classes. So I use IDs for reference and classes for styling ... most of the time.


CSS is of 3 kinds:
1. Inline CSS
2. Internal CSS
3. External CSS

CSS Layout - The position Property
There are five different position values:
1. static
   --- Static positioned elements are not affected by the top, bottom, left, and right properties. Always positioned according to the normal flow of the page.
2. relative
   --- Setting the top, right, bottom, and left properties of a relatively-positioned element will cause it to be adjusted away from its normal position. 
3. fixed
   --- Always stays in the same place even if the page is scrolled. The top, right, bottom, and left properties are used to position the element.
4. absolute
   --- An element with position: absolute; is positioned relative to the nearest positioned ancestor (instead of positioned relative to the viewport, like fixed).
5. sticky 
   ---A sticky element toggles between relative and fixed, depending on the scroll position. It is positioned relative until a given offset position is met in the viewport - then it "sticks" in place (like position:fixed).